**Made by Nicolò Baroncini (1834907)**

## Research (12_R)
### What is the "Brownian motion" and what is a Wiener process. History, importance, definition and applications (Bachelier, Wiener, Einstein, ...).

**What is the Brownian motion**\
The Brownian motion is the random motion of particles suspended in a medium (a liquid or a gas).\
This pattern of motion describes a fluid at thermal equilibrium, defined by a given temperature. Within such a fluid, there exists no preferential direction of flow.

The many-body interactions that yield the Brownian pattern cannot be solved by a model accounting for every involved molecule. In consequence, only probabilistic models applied to molecular populations can be employed to describe it. For example, one such model that belongs to statistical mechanics is due to Einstein.\
Another, pure probabilistic class of models is the class of the stochastic process models. There exist sequences of both simpler and more complicated stochastic processes which converge (in the limit) to Brownian motion.

**What is the Wiener process**\
In mathematics, the Wiener process is a real valued continuous-time stochastic process named in honor of American mathematician Norbert Wiener for his investigations on the mathematical properties of the one-dimensional Brownian motion.\
It is often also called Brownian motion due to its historical connection with the physical process. In fact, in mathematics, the Wiener process describes the Brownian motion. \
It is one of the best known Lévy processes and occurs frequently in pure and applied mathematics, economics, quantitative finance, evolutionary biology, and physics.

*Definition:*\
The Wiener process Wₜ is characterised by the following properties:\
**1.** W₀ = 0 \
**2.** W has indepent increments: for every t > 0, the future increments Wₜ₊ᵤ - Wₜ, u >= 0, are independent of the past values Wₛ, s <= t.  \
**3.** W has Gaussian increments: Wₜ₊ᵤ - Wₜ is normally distributed with mean 0 and variance u, Wₜ₊ᵤ - Wₜ = N(0,u)\
**4.** W has continouous paths: Wₜ is continuous in t.

The Wiener process can be constructed as the scaling limit of a random walk, or other discrete-time stochastic processes with stationary independent increments. This is known as Donsker's theorem.

**History**\
The term Brownian motion derives from Robert Brown, who observed it in 1827 while he was studying at the microscope the pollen particles of Pulchella clarkia in the water: he pointed out that the particles were in a continuous motion and that in each moment that motion was evolving in random directions, although he was not able to explain the cause of the phenomenum.\
The first person to describe the mathematics behind Brownian motion was Thorvald N. Thiele in a paper on the method of least squares published in 1880. This was followed independently by Louis Bachelier in 1900 in his PhD thesis "The theory of speculation", in which he presented a stochastic analysis of the stock and option markets.\
In 1905 Albert Einstein published an article explaining the reason of the Brownian motion, which is caused by the hits between the pollen particles and the water molecules, moved at their own by the thermal energy.\
In 1913 J. B. Perrin contributed to spread the new theory about the atomic structure of the matter, proved by the Brownian motion itself (for this and other results Perrin won the Nobel prize in 1926).\
Other developments have been carried out by M. Smoluchowski and P. Langevin, who contributed by studying stochastic processes and stochastic differential equations.\
In 1923 N. Wiener contributed with one of the most important developments of the Brownian motion about mathematics.

[1][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownian_motion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownian_motion)\
[2][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiener_process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiener_process)
