**Made by Nicolò Baroncini (1834907)**

## Research (6_R)
### Think and explain in your own words what is the role that probability plays in Statistics and the relation between the observed distribution and their "theoretical" counterparts. 
In descriptive statistics we don't have any random event that could occur. We just assume to have a dataset that comes from an observation of a phenomenon and we want to summarize and represent data.\
When probability is considered then we are assuming to have some random events and, for each of it, we want to determine how likely that event will occur. \
So, probability is a branch of mathematics that concers the numerical description of how likely an event is to occur while statistics is the discipline that concerns the collection, organization, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data.\
The probability theory becomes a tool used in statistics when doing inferential statistics: we want to gather a distribution of some variables for a sample, when starting from an empirical distribution, obtained by observing a real population that is contained into the sample. So, by observing a real population, we make conclusions on a bigger set of statistical units of which we can't make real observations. We are deriving conclusions of something we don't know by processing what we know.\
In inferential statistics the probability theory is used to understand what is the probability distribution that most likely generated an empirical distribution. If we know the probability distribution then we can inference conclusions for bigger populations, that we can't descriptively describe, with the same characteristics of the one observed. Those conclusions aren't certainly true since are a result of probability theory results. So I can say that a probability distribution is the one that most likely generated an empirical one but it could have been generated by not the most likely.\
Said this, it's possible to understand what is the relation between observed and probability distributions. The observed distribution is the one that is generated by a particular probability distribution. A probability distribution can generate many real distributions, since it involves randomness, and, for the same reason, an observed distribution can be generated by many different probability distributions. In inferential statistics we want to understand what is the most likely distribution that generated the one we are observing.

So, in practice, the relation between the two is that a probability distribution generates an empirical distribution.

### Do some practical examples where you explain how the concepts of an abstract probability space relate to more "concrete" and "real-world" objects when doing statistics.
First of all let's quickly define what is a probability space.\
A probability space is a triple (Ω, F, P), it is a mathematical construct that provides a formal model of a random process or "experiment".

A probability space consists of three elements:

***1-*** A sample space, Ω , which is the set of all possible outcomes. An outcome is the result of a single execution of the model.\
***2-*** The σ-algebra F is a collection of all the events we would like to consider. This collection may or may not include each of the elementary events. Here, an "event" is a set of zero or more outcomes and so a subset of the sample space. \
***3-*** The probability measure P is a function returning an event's probability. A probability is a real number between 0 (the event happens almost never) and 1 (the event happens almost surely).

Now we can see how these abstract and theoretical concepts are related to the more concrete ones we have already defined for descriptive statistics and so related to empirical distributions.

Let's suppose we have the next empirical distribution that describe a population:

|      X      | Relative frequency |
| ----------- | ------------------ |
| Male (M)    | fₘ                 |
| Female (F)  | fբ                 |

The theoretical distribution that generated this empirical distribution can be as follows:

|      X      | Probability        |
| ----------- | ------------------ |
| Male (M)    | Pₘ                 |
| Female (F)  | Pբ                 |

Let's now analyze how every component of the theoretical distribution is related to the concrete ones.

• Ω is the set of distinct values that the random variable X can take, in this case M and F. This set is equal to the set of distinct values that the variable X can take in the empirical distribution.
• F is a set of subset, that must contain Ω, ∅ and all the subsets that i can get from it, so: M, F and M ∧ F. These events are the frequencies I want to know relatively to the empirical distribution. I can calculate the joint frequency like M ∧ F starting by the frequencies in the distribution.
• P is the probability, the measure which is defined in this set, so Pₘ and Pբ. In the empirical distribution the probability becomes the relative frequency that tells how many times a value of the variable X appears.

[1][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability) \
[2][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics) \
[3][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability_space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability_space)
