**Made by Nicolò Baroncini (1834907)**
## Application (9_A_1)
**[Press here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qbxCa957VDPXd8xvoibEd8vRCLwTEsYj/view?usp=sharing)** to download the zip that contains the application. \

To generate the theoretical CDF and the empirical CDF a discrete uniform random variable has been considered for which the class UniformRVGenerator has been created.

Below there is the constructor of the class where an object Random is instantiated.
{% highlight C# %}
public UniformRVGenerator(int max_value_in, int min_value_in, int max_x_in)
{
    r = new Random();
    max_value = max_value_in;
    min_value = min_value_in;
    max_x = max_x_in;
}
{% endhighlight %}

The object Random is used to generate a random integer in the interval [min_value, max_value), as shown below.
{% highlight C# %}
public int GetRandomValue()
{
    return r.Next((int)min_value, (int)max_value);
}
{% endhighlight %}

Then are generated the points of the theoretical CDF by using the formula of the CDF of a Discrete Uniform random variable.
{% highlight C# %}
public List<PointF> GetTheoreticalCDF()
{
    List<PointF> l_points = new List<PointF>();
    for(double i = 0; i < max_x; i++)
    {
        if (i >= min_value && i <= max_value)
        {
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)i, (float)((i-min_value+1)/ (max_value - min_value + 1))));
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)(i + 1), (float)((i - min_value + 1) / (max_value - min_value + 1))));
        }
        else if(i < min_value)
        {
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)i, 0));
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)(i + 1), 0));
        }
        else if(i > max_value)
        {
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)i, 1));
            l_points.Add(new PointF((float)(i + 1), 1));
        }
    }

    return l_points;
}
{% endhighlight %}

The function GetRandomValue is used to generate a path made of points where the y is obtained from a Discrete Uniform random variable.
{% highlight C# %}
public List<PointF> GetRandomEmpiricalCDF(int num_values)
{
    List<int> values = new List<int>();

    for(int i = 0; i < num_values; i++)
    {
        values.Add(GetRandomValue());
    }

    values.Sort();

    List<PointF> empirical_paths = new List<PointF>();

    int num_less_than = 0;
    int j = 0;
    for(int i = 0; i < max_x; i++)
    {
        while (j < num_values && values[j] <= i)
        {
            num_less_than++;
            j++;
        }
        empirical_paths.Add(new PointF(i, ((float)num_less_than)/((float)num_values)));
        empirical_paths.Add(new PointF(i+1, ((float)num_less_than) / ((float)num_values)));
    }
    return empirical_paths;
}
{% endhighlight %}

The drawing of the paths have been done in the same way as has been done in the application 8_A using the LinePlotter class.

Below it's available a video of the application.                                              
<iframe src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/78324346/140966683-f20f53ba-cbfb-4d75-995d-37ceeed3968c.mp4" width="700" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""> </iframe>
