**Made by Nicolò Baroncini (1834907)**
## Application (11_A)
**[Press here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1A6UO7MaP9Wd3to77-x3QmmE3_qcWIOAV/view?usp=sharing)** to download the zip that contains the application. 

**BernoulliRVGenerator**\
This class is mostly as it has been presented in past homework but the next 2 functions have been added to the class since they were requested to solve this homework.

The next function computes the distance of each success from the origin and adds it to a list, which is used to compute the distribution of the distances. The list "values" is a list of lists where each list is a sample path. The position j reflects the order in which a value has been sampled and so it is the distance from the origin.
{% highlight C# %}
public List<double> getFromOriginDistances()
{
    List<double> distances = new List<double>();

    for (int i = 0; i < values.Count; i++)
    {
        for (int j = 0; j < values[i].Count; j++)
        {
            if (values[i][j] == 1)
            {
                distances.Add(j);
            }
        }
    }

    return distances;
}
{% endhighlight %}
The getConsecutiveDistances function computes the distance from a success and the nearest previous success. The list "values" is defined as before.\
Everytime I have a success I compute the distance from the previous one, I add it to the list of distances and I update the previous with the current success.
{% highlight C# %}
public List<double> getConsecutiveDistances()
{
    List<double> distances = new List<double>();

    for (int i = 0; i < values.Count; i++)
    {
        int previous = 0;
        bool firstCase = true;
        for (int j = 0; j < values[i].Count; j++)
        {
            if (values[i][j] == 1)
            {
                if (!firstCase)
                {
                    distances.Add(j - previous);
                }
                else
                {
                    firstCase = false;
                }

                previous = j;

            }
        }
    }

    return distances;
}
{% endhighlight C# %}

**Main and other classes**\
Regarding the main of the program and the other classes used, like LinePlotter or Histogram, there aren't noticeable differences, in both the definition and the usage, from past homework. What I think could be interesting is how the two kind of distances and their distributions are computed using the functions already defined before.

{% highlight C# %}
BernoulliRVGenerator b_g = new BernoulliRVGenerator();
paths = b_g.createPaths(m, n, p); //generate m sample paths made of n samples

//computes distances on a list of sample path already generated with object b_g
or_distances = b_g.getFromOriginDistances();
consec_distances = b_g.getConsecutiveDistances();

//computes the distribution of the distances from the origin and draws the histogram
or_dis = new Dictionary<(double, double), int>();
insert_into_continuous_distribution(or_dis, or_distances, 10, 0,10);
or_hist.print_histogram(pictureBox1,or_dis,this,10,or_distances, b, g, 1600, 30, false, 600,300);
g.DrawString("Distance of individual jumps",font, brush, new Point(1600, 340));
or_hist.DrawScene(true);

//computes the distribution of the distances from the last success and draws the histogram
consec_dis = new Dictionary<(double, double), int>();
insert_into_continuous_distribution(consec_dis, consec_distances, 10, 0, 10);
consec_hist.print_histogram(pictureBox1, consec_dis, this, 10, consec_distances, b, g, 1600, 530, false, 600, 300);
g.DrawString("Distance between consecutive jumps", font, brush, new Point(1600, 840));
consec_hist.DrawScene(true);
{% endhighlight C# %}

The video of the application can be found below.
<iframe src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/78324346/142034939-dcd618e0-83ec-493a-ac40-28b27aa48090.mp4" width="700" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""> </iframe>
