**Made by Nicolò Baroncini (1834907)**

## Research (11_R)
### Do a research about the general correlation coefficient for ranks and the most common indices that can be derived by it.
A correlation coefficient is a numerical measure of some type of correlation, meaning a statistical relationship between two variables. The variables may be two columns of a given data set of observations, often called a sample, or two components of a multivariate random variable with a known distribution.\
Several types of correlation coefficient exist, each with their own definition and own range of usability and characteristics.

We want to talk about **rank correlation coefficients**.

In statistics, a rank correlation is any of several statistics that measure an ordinal association that is the relationship between rankings of different ordinal variables or different rankings of the same variable. A "ranking" is the assignment of the ordering labels "first", "second", "third", etc. to different observations of a particular variable.

Any correlation coefficient, and so also any rank correlation coefficient, is inside the inverval [-1, 1] and assumes the value:

• 1 if the agreement between the two rankings is perfect; the two rankings are the same.

• 0 if the rankings are completely independent.

• −1 if the disagreement between the two rankings is perfect; one ranking is the reverse of the other.

Let's see now some kind of rank correlation coefficients.

**General Correlation coefficient**\
Suppose we have a set of n objects, which are being considered in relation to two properties, represented by x and y, forming the sets of values {xᵢ}, for i ≤ n, and {yᵢ}, for i ≤ n,. To any pair of individuals, say the i-th and the j-th we assign a x-score, denoted by aᵢⱼ, and a y-score, denoted by bᵢⱼ.\
The only requirement for these functions is that they be anti-symmetric, so aᵢⱼ = - aⱼᵢ and bᵢⱼ = - bⱼᵢ.

### Do one example of computation of these correlation coefficients for ranks.

[1][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correlation_coefficient](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correlation_coefficient)\
[2][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rank_correlation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rank_correlation)
